OSDOCS-5074: Choosing subnets when creating a LoadBalancerService ingress Controller (#85350)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-ingress-setting-select-subnet-LoadBalancerService.adoc

// Modules included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ingress/configure-ingress-operator.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-ingress-setting-select-subnet-LoadBalancerService_{context}"]
= Choosing subnets while creating a LoadBalancerService ingress controller
You can manually specify load balancer subnets for Ingress Controllers in an existing cluster. By default, load balancer subnets are automatically discovered by AWS, but specifying them in the Ingress Controller  overrides this, allowing for manual control.

[NOTE]
====
This feature and procedure applies only to AWS. 
====

.Prerequisites
* You must have an installed AWS cluster.
* You must know the names or IDs of the subnets to which you intend to map your IngressController.

.Procedure

> To create an Ingress Controller with manually specified load balancer subnets in {product-title} 4.17, you can follow these steps:

Reviewer: It could be a bit confusing to hardcode the OpenShift version that it was released in, maybe customers think this only applies to 4.17? I think the version doesn't need to be declared here because all docs are organized by version, but I am not a docs expert so I could very well be wrong.

* Create a custom resource (CR) file.
** Create a YAML file (e.g., `sample-ingress.yaml`) with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
    kind: IngressController
    metadata:
      namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
      name: <name>
    spec:
      domain: <domain>
      endpointPublishingStrategy:
        type: LoadBalancerService
        loadBalancer:
          scope: External

>       dnsManagementPolicy: Managed

Reviewer 2: wrong indentation for Line 28-38, it should be like
```
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  name: <name>
...
...
```

----

* Create a custom resource (CR) file.

** Create a YAML file (e.g., `sample-ingress.yaml`) with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name:  <name> (1)
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  domain: <domain> (2)
  endpointPublishingStrategy:
    type: LoadBalancerService
    loadBalancer:
      scope: External
      providerParameters:
        type: AWS
        aws:
          type: Classic
          classicLoadBalancer: (3)
              subnets:
                ids: (4)
                - <subnet> (5)
                - <subnet>

>                 - <subnet>

Reviewer 2: Indentation issue from Line 63, we could update as below
```
          classicLoadBalancer: (3)
            subnets:
              ids: (4)
              - <subnet> (5)
              - <subnet>
              - <subnet>
```

----+
Replace `<name>` with a name for the Ingress controller
<1> Replace `<name>` with a name for the Ingress Controller
<2> Replace `<domain>` with the DNS name serviced by the Ingress Controller
<3> You can also use the `networkLoadBalancer` field if using an NLB
<4> You can optionally specify subnet by name using the `names` field
<5> Specify subnet IDs (or names if you using `names`).

> +

Reviewer: How about a warning/note (or whatever you think) here regarding:
```
- A maximum of one subnet per availability zone can be specified.
- Only provide public subnets for external Ingress Controllers and private subnets for internal Ingress Controllers.
```

** Apply the CR file:

Save the file and apply it using the OpenShift CLI:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$  oc apply -f sample-ingress.yaml
+
** Confirm the load balancer was provisioned successfully by checking the IngressController conditions. 

    oc get ingresscontroller -n openshift-ingress-operator <name> -o jsonpath="{.status.conditions}" | yq -PC
+
----
+
= Updating the subnets on an existing Ingress Controller

* Choose the subnets.
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name:  <name> (1)
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  domain: <domain> (2)
  endpointPublishingStrategy:
    type: LoadBalancerService
    loadBalancer:
      scope: External
      providerParameters:
        type: AWS
        aws:
          type: Classic
          classicLoadBalancer: (3)
              subnets:
                ids: (4)
                - <updated-subnet> (5)
                - <updated-subnet>

>                 - <updated-subnet>

Reviewer 2: Same to above, decrease indent for Line 110-114

// Modules included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ingress/configure-ingress-operator.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-ingress-setting-select-subnet-LoadBalancerService_{context}"]

> = Choosing subnets while creating a LoadBalancerService ingress controller

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
= Choosing subnets while creating a LoadBalancerService Ingress Controller
```

> You can manually specify load balancer subnets for Ingress Controllers in an existing cluster. By default, load balancer subnets are automatically discovered by AWS, but specifying them in the Ingress Controller  overrides this, allowing for manual control.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can manually specify load balancer subnets for Ingress Controllers in an existing cluster. By default, the load balancer subnets are automatically discovered by AWS, but specifying them in the Ingress Controller overrides this, allowing for manual control.
```

[NOTE]
====
This feature and procedure applies only to AWS. 
====

> 

Reviewer 3: Is it necessary to have both this note and the prerequisite? I think the prerequisite is sufficient. In fact, when I first read this note I thought to myself, this should just be a prerequisite. Up to you though.

.Prerequisites
* You must have an installed AWS cluster.

> * You must know the names or IDs of the subnets to which you intend to map your IngressController.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You must know the names or IDs of the subnets to which you intend to map your `IngressController`.
```

Reviewer 3: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#ingress

Reviewer 3: Since you're referencing the CR, use backticks.

.Procedure

> To create an Ingress Controller with manually specified load balancer subnets, you can follow these steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create an `IngressController` with manually specified load balancer subnets, you can follow these steps:
```

. Create a custom resource (CR) file.
.. Create a YAML file (e.g., `sample-ingress.yaml`) with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  name: <name>
spec:
  domain: <domain>
  endpointPublishingStrategy:
    type: LoadBalancerService
    loadBalancer:
      scope: External
  dnsManagementPolicy: Managed
----

. Create a custom resource (CR) file.

.. Create a YAML file (e.g., `sample-ingress.yaml`) with the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name:  <name> <1>
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  domain: <domain> <2>
  endpointPublishingStrategy:
    type: LoadBalancerService
    loadBalancer:
      scope: External
      providerParameters:
        type: AWS
        aws:
          type: Classic
          classicLoadBalancer: <3>
            subnets:
              ids: <4>
              - <subnet> <5>
              - <subnet>
              - <subnet>
----

> <1> Replace `<name>` with a name for the Ingress Controller

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<1> Replace `<name>` with a name for the `IngressController`.
```

Reviewer 3: Since this is the name for the custom resource, use backticks.

> <2> Replace `<domain>` with the DNS name serviced by the Ingress Controller
> <3> You can also use the `networkLoadBalancer` field if using an NLB
> <4> You can optionally specify subnet by name using the `names` field

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<2> Replace `<domain>` with the DNS name serviced by the `IngressController`.
<3> You can also use the `networkLoadBalancer` field if using an NLB.
<4> You can optionally specify a subnet by name using the `names` field.
```

Reviewer 3: For #4, I am wondering, is this option _instead_ of specifying the subnet by ID? If so, it may be clarifying to say that.

<5> Specify subnet IDs (or names if you using `names`).
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can specify a maximum of one subnet per availability zone. Only provide public subnets for external Ingress Controllers and private subnets for internal Ingress Controllers.
====
+
.. Apply the CR file:

> . Save the file and apply it using the OpenShift CLI:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Save the file and apply it using the {oc-first}.
```

Reviewer 3: Could also use attributes here.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$  oc apply -f sample-ingress.yaml
----

> .. Confirm the load balancer was provisioned successfully by checking the IngressController conditions. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. Confirm the load balancer was provisioned successfully by checking the `IngressController` conditions. 
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get ingresscontroller -n openshift-ingress-operator <name> -o jsonpath="{.status.conditions}" | yq -PC
----
+

> = Updating the subnets on an existing Ingress Controller

Reviewer 3: You need a unique ID before this header: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#anchoring-in-module-files

Also, I think this should be a `==`, since you already use the `=` in your first heading. I'm surprised this didn't throw an asciidoc preview error. If you run `asciibinder build`, you'll probably see it come up but you're only supposed to have one H1 in a module file.

 If you want this to be an H1, you could break it out into its own procedure module, which may honestly be a good option for this since its quite a long procedure module anyways, so for modular docs you may just want to go with this option. Because additionally, I'm thinking that this heading should have a little introductory text to it as well, which sorta reinforces my thinking that this should just be its own module.

Author: Done! Thank you!

. Choose the subnets.
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  name:  <name>
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
spec:
  domain: <domain>
  endpointPublishingStrategy:
    type: LoadBalancerService
    loadBalancer:
      scope: External
      providerParameters:
        type: AWS
        aws:
          type: Classic <1>
          classicLoadBalancer:
            subnets:
              ids:
              - <updated_subnet>
              - <updated_subnet>
              - <updated_subnet>
----

> <1> Specify updated subnet IDs (or names if you using `names`).

Reviewer 3: I think it would be helpful if you replicate the same callouts from the previous example here, just in the off chance someone comes back to reference this but doesn't look at the other one before, they may have the question of whether they can use names instead of IDs, and that was covered in the other callouts.

> . Examine the `Progressing` condition on the IngressController for instructions on how to apply the subnet updates:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Examine the `Progressing` condition on the `IngressController` for instructions on how to apply the subnet updates:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get ingresscontroller -n openshift-ingress-operator subnets -o jsonpath="{.status.conditions[?(@.type==\"Progressing\")]}" | yq -PC
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
lastTransitionTime: "2024-11-25T20:19:31Z"
message: 'One or more status conditions indicate progressing: LoadBalancerProgressing=True (OperandsProgressing: One or more managed resources are progressing: The IngressController subnets were changed from [...] to [...].  To effectuate this change, you must delete the service: `oc -n openshift-ingress delete svc/router-<name>`; the service load-balancer will then be deprovisioned and a new one created. This will most likely cause the new load-balancer to have a different host name and IP address and cause disruption. To return to the previous state, you can revert the change to the IngressController: [...]'
reason: IngressControllerProgressing
status: "True"
type: Progressing
----

> . Delete the service associated with the IngressController to apply the update:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Delete the service associated with the `IngressController` to apply the update:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-ingress delete svc/router-<name>
----
+
[WARNING]
====
An outage that can last several minutes due to new DNS records propagation, new load balancers provisioning, and other factors. IP addresses and canonical names of the Ingress Controller load balancer might change after applying this procedure.
====

> . Confirm the load balancer was provisioned successfully by checking the IngressController conditions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Confirm the load balancer was provisioned successfully by checking the `IngressController` conditions.
```

// Modules included in the following assemblies:
//
// * ingress/configure-ingress-operator.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-ingress-setting-select-subnet-LoadBalancerService_{context}"]

> = Choosing subnets while creating a LoadBalancerService Ingress Controller

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
= Choosing subnets while creating a LoadBalancerService Ingress controller
```

> = Choosing subnets while creating a LoadBalancerService Ingress Controller
> You can manually specify load balancer subnets for Ingress Controllers in an existing cluster. By default, the load balancer subnets are automatically discovered by AWS, but specifying them in the Ingress Controller overrides this, allowing for manual control.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
= Choosing subnets while creating a LoadBalancerService Ingress Controller

You can manually specify load balancer subnets for Ingress Controllers in an existing cluster. By default, the load balancer subnets are automatically discovered by AWS, but specifying them in the Ingress Controller overrides this, allowing for manual control.
```

> You can manually specify load balancer subnets for Ingress Controllers in an existing cluster. By default, the load balancer subnets are automatically discovered by AWS, but specifying them in the Ingress Controller overrides this, allowing for manual control.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can manually specify load balancer subnets for Ingress controllers in an existing cluster. By default, the load balancer subnets are automatically discovered by AWS, but specifying them in the Ingress controller overrides this, allowing for manual control.
```

.Prerequisites
* You must have an installed AWS cluster.

> * You must know the names or IDs of the subnets to which you intend to map your `IngressController`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* You must know the names or IDs of the subnets to which you intend to map your Ingress controller.
```

> .Procedure

Reviewer 4: Steps 1 and two are identical:
```
. Create a custom resource (CR) file.
+
Create a YAML file (e.g., `sample-ingress.yaml`) with the following content:
```

These seem to be two different `IngressController` custom resources, so what is the difference between the two?

Author: Thanks, I reworded step two.

> .Procedure
> To create an `IngressController` with manually specified load balancer subnets, you can follow these steps:
> 
> . Create a custom resource (CR) file.

Reviewer 4: There should not be text outside of steps in the `.Procedure` section
```suggestion
.Procedure

. Create a custom resource (CR) file.
```

+

> Create a YAML file (e.g., `sample-ingress.yaml`) with the following content:

Reviewer 4: Not really sure you need the " (e.g., `sample-ingress.yaml`)" here, but if you do, should there be two names to differentiate the CR created in step 1 vs step 2?

.Procedure

> To create an Ingress Controller of type **LoadBalancerService** in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.17, you can follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an Ingress Controller with manually specified load balancer subnets in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform 4.17, you can follow these steps:
```

----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  name: <name>
spec:

>   domain: <domain>

Reviewer 4: These items are defined in step 2, should they be defined here?

  endpointPublishingStrategy:
    type: LoadBalancerService
    loadBalancer:
      scope: External
  dnsManagementPolicy: Managed
----

> . Create a custom resource (CR) file.
> +
> Create a YAML file (e.g., `sample-ingress.yaml`) with the following content:

Reviewer 4: Would suggest minimalizing this a bit :)
```suggestion
. Create a custom resource (CR) YAML file with the following content:
```

      dnsManagementPolicy: Managed
----
+
Replace `<name>` with a name for the Ingress Controller and `<domain>` with the DNS name serviced by the Ingress Controller.
+
** Apply the CR file:

Save the file and apply it using the OpenShift CLI:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $  oc apply -f sample-ingress.yaml

Reviewer: Since providing subnets can have mistakes, I'd recommend adding a step here to check the IngressController status conditions for issues:
```
** Confirm the load balancer was provisioned successfully by checking the IngressController conditions. 

    oc get ingresscontroller -n openshift-ingress-operator <name> -o jsonpath="{.status.conditions}" | yq -PC
```

    loadBalancer:
      scope: External
      providerParameters:
        type: AWS
        aws:
          type: Classic
          classicLoadBalancer: <3>
            subnets:
              ids: <4>
              - <subnet> <5>
              - <subnet>
              - <subnet>
----

> <1> Replace `<name>` with a name for the `IngressController`.
> <2> Replace `<domain>` with the DNS name serviced by the `IngressController`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<1> Replace `<name>` with a name for the `IngressController` CR.
<2> Replace `<domain>` with the DNS name serviced by the `IngressController` CR.
```
or
```suggestion
<1> Replace `<name>` with a name for the Ingress controller.
<2> Replace `<domain>` with the DNS name serviced by the Ingress controller.
```

<3> You can also use the `networkLoadBalancer` field if using an NLB.
<4> You can optionally specify a subnet by name using the `names` field instead of specifying the subnet by ID.

> <5> Specify subnet IDs (or names if you using `names`).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
<5> Specify subnet IDs (or names if using the `names` field).
```

+
[IMPORTANT]
====
You can specify a maximum of one subnet per availability zone. Only provide public subnets for external Ingress Controllers and private subnets for internal Ingress Controllers.

> ====

Reviewer 4: Is this supposed to modify the subnet ID callout? Right now, it modifies the entire step. If you want it to be attached to the subnet ID callout, you need to enclose the YAML section in an open block. Let me know if you're not familiar with this.

> +

Reviewer 4: Stray `+`
```suggestion

```

> . Apply the CR file.
> 
> .. Save the file and apply it using the {oc-first}.
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $  oc apply -f sample-ingress.yaml
> ----

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Save the file and then apply it by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$  oc apply -f sample-ingress.yaml
----
```

> .. Confirm the load balancer was provisioned successfully by checking the `IngressController` conditions. 
> +
> [source,terminal]
> ----
> $ oc get ingresscontroller -n openshift-ingress-operator <name> -o jsonpath="{.status.conditions}" | yq -PC
> ----

Reviewer 4: This is a verification step
```suggestion
.Verification

* To confirm that the load balancer was provisioned successfully, check the `IngressController` conditions by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get ingresscontroller -n openshift-ingress-operator <name> -o jsonpath="{.status.conditions}" | yq -PC
----
```
